### <u>Combinatroics</u>

The study of combinatorics is the study of counting things in strange and interesting ways



1) How many possible poker hands are there?
2) How many ways can we choose a 3 topping pizza with 10 other options for toppings?
3) How many ways can we split 8 slices of pizza between 3 people?
4) How many ways can we make change for a dollar?



### <u>Notation</u>

$A = \set{a_1, a_2,...,a_n}$ is an $n$-element set. All terms are different. Order does not matter.



**Example**

1. Let $A$ be the set of primes less than $10$. $A = \set{2,3,5,7}$. Let $B$ be the set of odd numbers less than $10$ where $B = \set{1, 3, 5, 7, 9}$
   - We denote the size of a set $A$ by $|A|$. (Alternatively #$A$)



2. Choose a prime less than $10$ **and** an odd number less than $10$. 
   - For this we use the notation $A\times B = \set{(a,b) : a\in A, b \in B}$
   - we have $|A\times B| = |A| \cdot |B| = 4 \cdot 5 = 20$



3. Choose a prime less than $10$ **or** choose an odd number less than $10$ 

   - This is denoted by $A \cup B = \set{x : x \in A | x \in B}$

   - We have $|A \cup B| = 6$

     

4. Choose a number less than 10 that is both prime and an odd number.

   - We denote this by $A\cap B = \set{x : x\in A, x\in B}$
   - We have $\set{3, 5, 7}$



> Def: Let $A$ be a set. We define a list of $A$, the set of elements of $A$ where the order matters.



5. Let $A = \set{2,3,5,7}$ be the set of primes less than $10$. The possible lists of $A$ includes $(2,3,5,7), ...,(3,2,5,7),...,(5,2,3,7),..., (7,2,3,5),...$
   - In this case there are $24$ lists of $A = \set{2,3,5,7}$.
   - Not all elements in A will occur exactly once in each list. That is, lists are length $|A|$.



Let $A$ be a set with $|A|=n$. How many lists of $A$ are there?

- $n!$



Let $P_n$ be the number of lists of $A$ where $|A| =n$. We can partition the set of lists based upon the first element of the list.



- There are $n$ choices for this first element. Let $x \in A$ be the first element of a list. The remainder of the list will be chosen from the lists of $A$  \ $ \set{x}$

  - Note $A$ \ $B$ $= \set{x : x\in A, x \notin B}$

  - Notice $|A$  \ $\set{x}| = n -1$



Note $P_1= 1$ (The only way to get a list from $\set{x}$ Is $(x)$ [list]. Hence $P_n = n \cdot P_{n-1} = n(n-1)P_{n-2}=n!$



> Thm : Let $A$ be a set with $|A| =n$. Then the number of lists of $A$ is $n!$



















