> Def. A subset of a set is a collection of elements from $A$ without repetition.



Note that A subset may be empty or all of A. Order doesn't matter


*Example*

Let $A= \set{2,3,5,7}$. The set of all subsets includes: $\set{},\set{2}, \set{3}, \set{5}, \set{7},...,\set{2,3,5,7}$



We see for each $x \in A$ a subset either contains $x$, or it does not contain $x$. This gives us two choices for all $x \in A$. Either it is in the subset or it is not. This allows us to observe that the number of subsets of $A$ where $|A|=n$ is $2^n$



> Thm. # of subsets of $A$ with $|A|=n$, is $2^n$



Note that a simple proof can be done by a 3-dimensional graph $\set{x,y,z}$.

- the graph that all verticles one the left do not have a X. All verticles on the right have $x$. Similarly, front and back with $y$, and top and bottom with $z$.



> Def. Let $A$ be a set of size $n$. A partial list of size $k$ is a ordered list $(a_1, a_2,...,a_k)$ with $a_i \in A$ and no repeat.



*Example*

- Let $A = \set{2,3,5,7}$. Let $k=2$. The partial lists of length $2$ of $A$ are $(2,3),(3,2),(2,5),(5,2)$

  $(2,7),(7,2),(3,5),(5,3)$

  $(3,7),(7,3),(5,7),(7,5)$

  

Notice that there are $4$ choices for the first element of the list. After we have chosen the first element,  there are only 3 choices for the second element. After this, we are done and we have no more choices. This gives the number of partial lists $4 \cdot 3 =12$

With this, for $|A| =n$, and $k \leq n$ 

1. $n$ choices for the first element.
2. $(n-1)$ choices for the second.

  k.  $(n-k+1)$ choices for the $k^{th}$ element

$n(n-1)(n-2)...(n-k+1)$

$= \frac{n(n-1)(n-2)...(n-k+1)(n-k)...(2)(1)}{(n-k)(n-k+1)...(2)(1)} = \frac{n!}{(n-k)!}$ 





*Example*

- Find all of the subets of size $2$ of $\set{2,3,5,7}$ 
  - $4C2$ 



For every subset of length $k$, there are $k!$ orderings of the elements to get a partial list of length $k$. This is true for every subset. This gives us that

> (# of subsets of size $k$ of $\set{1,2,...,n}) \cdot k! =$ # of partial lists of length $k$ of $\set{1,2,...,n}$



> Thm. Let $a$ be a set $|A| =n$, and $k\leq n$. Then the number of subsets of $A$ of size $k$ is $\frac{n!}{(n-k)!(k!)}=$ $n \choose k$





### 1.1.3 Meaning vs Algebra

There are many examples in combinatorics where we can manipulate the algebra to get a result or relationship. 



Example. Show $n \choose k$ = $n \choose n-k$



$n \choose k$ is # of subsets of size $k$ of $\set{1,2,...,n}$

Let $S = \set{a_1,a_2,..a_k}$ be a subset of size $k$ of $\set{1,2,...,n}$. Notice $S^c =\set{1,2,...,n}$ \ $S$ is a subset of size $n-k$

- if $n=10, A=\set{2,3,5,7}$ then $A^{c} = \set{1,4,6,8,9,10}$

We see every $A$, a subset of size $k$ corresponds to be an unique $A^c$, a subset of size $n-k$. Moreover, every subset of size $n-k$ can be constructed in this way. This tells us that # of subsets of size $k$ is the same as the number of subsets of size $n-k$



$\sum_{i+1}^n{j+k}$

$\begin{bmatrix} 3 & 2&4 \\ 2 & 4& 5 \end{bmatrix}$

































