> Def. Let $A$ and $B$ be sets 
>
> If $A$ map $f$: $A \rightarrow B$ is said to be surjective (onto) if $\forall b \in B$ there exists (at least one)
>
> $a \in A$ with $f(a) =b$ 

- $f: \set{1,2,3,4} \rightarrow \set{1,2}$ by  $f(1) =1, f(2) =f(3)=f(4)=2$ **(surjective)**

>A map $f: A \rightarrow B$ is said to be injective (one-to-one) if every $a\in A$ maps to a unique $ b \in B$

- $ f : \set{1,2} \rightarrow \set{1,2,3,4}$ by $f(1)=2, f(2) = 4$ **(Injective)**

> If 1 & 2 

- $f:\set{1,2,3} \rightarrow \set{2,3,5}$ by $f(1) = 2, f(2) = 3, f(3)=5$ **(bijection)**





#### Observation

1. If there is a surjection $f : A\rightarrow B$ then $|A| \geq |B|$
2. If there is an injection $f: A \rightarrow B$ then $|A| \leq |B|$
3. If there is a bijection $f: A \rightarrow B$ then $|A| = |B|$ 

- if there is a bijection, we say $A \longleftrightarrow B$



Show $n \choose k$ = $n-1 \choose k-1$+$ n-1 \choose k$



Let $B(n,k)$ be the set of subsets of $\set{1,...n}$ of size $k$. Notice that

- $|B(n,k)|$ = $n \choose k$ 

- $|B(n-1,k-1)|$ = $n-1 \choose k-1$ 

- $|B(n-1, k)|$ = $n-1 \choose k$

$: B(3,2) = \set{\set{1,2}, \set{1,3}, \set{2,3}}$

Goal is to find a bijection from $B(n,k) \rightarrow B(n-1,k-1) \cup B(n-1, k)$



Notice that $B(n-1, k-1)$ and $B(n-1, k)$ are disjoint, which gives

$|B(n-1, k-1) \cup B(n-1, k)| = |B(n-1, k-1)| + |B(n-1, k)|$



$B(4,2)$

- $\set{1,2}, \set{1,3}, \set{1,4}, \set{2,3}, \set{2,4}, \set{3,4}$

$B(3,2)$

- $\set{1,2}, \set{1,3}, $\ $\set{4}, \set{2,3}, $\ $\set{4},$\ $ \set{4}$
- $...,...,\set{1},...,\set{2},\set{3}$



Now we will construct a map $f$ with $f = B(n,k) \rightarrow B(n-1,k-1) \cup B(n-1,k)$

by $f(\set{a_1, a_2,..,a_k}) = \set{a_1,..,a_k}$ \ $\set{n}$

if $n \notin \set{a_1,a_2...,a_k}$, we see $f(\set{a_1, a_2,..,a_k}) = \set{a_1,..,a_k} \in B(n-1,k)$

if $n \in \set{a_1,...,a_k}$ then $f(\set{a_1,...,a_k})$ is size $k-1$ and uses numbers $\set{1,..,n-1}$



This gives $f(\set{a_1, ...,a_k}) \in B(n-1, k-1)$ 



Is this a bijection?

- Notice that if $n \notin \set{a_1, ..,a_k}$, this map is injective and surjective. The inverse map is $f^{-1}(\set{a_1,...,a_k}) = \set{a_1,...,a_k}$



If $n = \set{a_1,...,a_k}$ say that $\set{a_1,...,a_k} = \set{a_1,..,a_{k-1}, n}$

- Then $f(\set{a_1,..., a_{k-1}, n})= \set{a_1,...,a_{k-1}}$ and $f^{-1}(\set{a_1,...,a_{k-1}}) = \set{a_1,...,a_{k-1}} \cup \set{n}$



Thsi gives that $f$ is a bijection. Hence $|B(n,k) | = |B(n-1), k)| + |B(n-1,k)|$ =>

$n \choose k$ = $n-1 \choose k$ + $n-1 \choose k-1$ as required. 





> Def. Let $n \geq 0$ and $t \geq 1$. $A$ multiset of size $n$ with $t$ types is a list $(a_1,..,a_t)$ where $a_1+...+a_t=n$

- A person has $10$ pets, (fish, cat, dog). Here $n=10, t=3$. Then the list could be $(7,2,1)$ . We could have had $t=4$ types (fish,cat, dog, bird). Then, $(7,2,1,0)$



> Thm. # of multisets of $n$ with $t$ types is $n+t-1 \choose t-1$

*Bijection proof*

Let $A$ be the set of subsets of size $t-1$ of $\set{1,..,n+t-1}$

-  Clearly $|A|=$$n+t-1 \choose t-1$

Let $B$ be the set of multisets of size $n$ with $t$ types. 

- For example, we could have $n=10, t=4$ 



Consider the subset in $A$ given by

$0000000\empty 00 \empty 0 \empty$

- Here there are $13 =n+t-1$ circles, of which $3=t-1$ are crossed off

$\text{7 fish}(0000000)\empty \text{2 rats}(00) \empty \text{1 dog}(0) \text{ 0 birds}(\empty)$



This (admittedly non rigorously defined) map is a bijection from $A$ to $B$ This gives us $|A|=|B|$ 

Exercise make this rigorous